React:
-> Environment 
-> Reusable components, Virtual DOM, ReactDOM, Library 
-> Code length Short
-> Syntax short 
-> ES6 Features implemented in react 

What is React?
    JavaScript Library
    Developed by Facebook called Meta.
    To Build user interfaces.
    Especially for single page applications (spa)
    Mainly used to build reusable ui.
    Component based architecture.
    Maintain Multiple dynamic process in single component.
    Declarative Component based front end libraries for building fast, dynamic and scalable web applications.

Why React?
    Js Speed process so we use virtual dom for fast updates.
    No full reload the whole page 
    App is divided into small reusable components.
    1 way data flow 
    We can make debugging and data tracking easier 

Declarative 
    You just tell what to render not how to render 
    react handles the dom updates
    community setup in react (huge ecosystem of packages and libraries)
    cross platform (react native for mobile, react for web)
    stable code (user downward data flow) fewer thing process in side effect 

    side effect: if we use third party data any error happen

prerequisite:
    Core Js (var, let, const, function, hoisting, arrow function)
    Advanced js (async await, callback, promises, fetch)
    Array (destructuring, spread operator, array methods(filter, reduce, find))
    Scope (lexical, closure, global and local variables)

ES6 Features:
    Modules (export/ import)
    Template Literals
    Ternary operator

DOM
    Manipulative element
    Event listener
    Event Handling
    Form handling 

JSON (javascript object notation)
    Notation (symbol)
    Convert data into data parse, stringfy
    Local & Sesssion storage
    data handling without backend

React build purely in javascript understanding the js deeply means you can master react faster.



Install Node.js

Git command
    node -v  version v22.19.0


Node:

JS:
    handling only in browser (v8 Engine)

React:
    simple and speed

HTML: WEbsite - HTML inside - js - browser Read 
React: website - js inside html means (jsx) - js read - browser bable compiler 

jsx - javascript xml 
    syntax extension for javascript that allows writing html inside js. 
    compile and run 
    pure js code 

    xml have rules to process the code 
    html do not have rules to process the cde 


Bable compiler
    Convert modern es6 + jsx into older js (es5)
    es5 only browser understands 
    not all browser understand the modern javascript 
    translate them into compatible code 

V8 Engine & React
    Google open source engine used in chrome and node js
    compile to machine code for fast execution

    REact build on pure js
    the browser uses the v8 engine to run the code efficiently
    so all your jsx file go to bable and bable convert into js 


Environment Setup:
CRA - React 3+ -> Basic and minimal project (webpacks bundle together)
Create React App - CRA 


    Commands:
        npm - node package manager 
                run the Installation process in c drive and folder drive.

        npx - node package execute
                run the Installation process only in the folder 
                create-react-app projectname 



Command prompt:

cd frontend
npm start

Default react: 
localhost:3000

server stop ctrl + c 



VITE - React 4+ -> Big project, efficient, and packages for app creation  (Roll up method ES6 Build) 
VITE - fast and efficient 

    Commands:

        npm create vite@latest projectname 

        npm create vibe@latest vitefrontend
            REact
                javascript
                    Rolldown Yes/No
                        npm start yes/no 
        
        
       localhost:5173

        server stop Ctrl + c 

    



TASK 1 to 6:
1. Difference between html webpage & react using webpage?
2. Difference between angular & react?
3. What is Typescript?
4. What is variable, declaration, initialization, lexical scope, block scope, function scope, hoisting, closure? 
5. In webdevelopment process why node is coming?
6. Which one is come first node, angular or react?

Task 7:
    Vite project - create project 
        List of files and folder 

    CRA project  - create project 
        List of files and folder 


IN CRA Project name - frontend1:

    node_modules - 879 modules
    public - favicon, index.html, logo.png, manifest.json, robots.txt 
    src - app.css, app.js, app.test.js, index.css, index.js, logo.svg, reportwebvitals.js, setupTest.js
    gitignore
    package.json 
    package.lock.json 
    readme.md 


IN VITE Project name - vitefrontend:

    node_modules - 124 modules 
    public - vite.svg 
    src - assets, app.css, app.jsx, index.css, main.jsx 
    gitignore
    eslint.config.js
    index.html 
    package.json 
    package.lock.json 
    readme.md 
    vite.config.js 




React:
What
React (aka React.js) is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces using reusable components.
It renders UI efficiently with a virtual DOM and lets you declare what the UI should look like for any app state.

Why 
React makes complex UIs easier to build and maintain by breaking the interface into small, reusable components.
Its performance (virtual DOM) and large ecosystem (hooks, tooling, libraries) speed up development and scaling.

Where
React is used in web applications (single-page apps), hybrid mobile apps (with React Native), and component libraries.
You'll find it in dashboards, e-commerce sites, admin panels, and many production apps from startups to large companies.

When
Use React when you need interactive, state-driven UIs, reusable components, or to manage frequent UI updates.
Avoid it for tiny static pages where plain HTML/CSS (or simpler libraries) would be faster and lighter.

How
Install React via npm/yarn (create-react-app, Vite) and build UI with components, props, state, and hooks (e.g., useState, useEffect).
Compose components, manage state locally or with libraries (Redux/Context/MobX), and render to the DOM with 
ReactDOM.createRoot(...).render(...).

Variables Behaviour:
var - Reassign, redeclare, initialize 
let - Reassign, initialize (do not redeclare) 
const - initialize 

Object {}:
Collection of related data and/or functionality.
structuring and organizing information.

Nested Object {{}}:
Object within object

Array []:
array are stored in specific order 

Array of Object [{}]:
Store collection of data, each data represents as objects parse, stringfy 

Dot Notation (Symbol):
access an object's properties, methods, or nested data 

Types of  function:
name function syntax:
(){

}

anoymous syntax:
const variable = (function(){

})

arrow Syntax:
()=>{
 
}

Array function:
pop -  removes the last element from an array. Last In First Out
push - adds one or more elements to the end of an array. 

call back function (){} 
passed an argument to another function execute later.

closure:
Combination of a function bundled together (enclosed) with references to its surrounding state (the lexical environment)